HOSTOS HOMEWORK #1
CHAPTERS 1-8
50 QUESTIONS

1. Which of the following descriptions MOST accurately portrays emergency medical services (EMS)?
A) a vast network of advanced life support (ALS) providers who provide definitive emergency care in the prehospital setting
B) a team of health care professionals who are responsible for providing emergency care and transportation to the sick and injured
C) a system composed exclusively of emergency medical responders (EMRs) and emergency medical technicians (EMTs) who are responsible for providing care to sick and injured patients
D) a team of paramedics and emergency physicians who are responsible for providing emergency care to critically injured patients


2. An EMS provider who has extensive training in various aspects of advanced life support (ALS) is called a(n):
A) EMT.
B) paramedic.
C) advanced EMT (AEMT).
D) EMR.


3.	To minimize the risk of litigation, the EMT should always:
A)	transport patients to the hospital of their choice.
B)	provide competent care that meets current standards.
C)	use universal precautions with every patient encounter.
D)	utilize at least four personnel when moving a patient.


4.	The simplest yet most effective method of preventing the spread of an infectious disease is to:
A)	undergo an annual physical examination.
B)	ensure that your immunizations are up-to-date.
C)	wash your hands in between patient contacts.
D)	undergo human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) testing at least twice a year.


5.	If you use a waterless handwashing substitute in the field, it is important to:
A)	wash your hands with soap and water at the hospital.
B)	immediately dry your hands with a paper towel.
C)	wait at least 5 minutes before touching another patient.
D)	avoid donning another pair of gloves for at least 10 minutes.


6.	Prescription glasses do not provide adequate eye protection because they:
A)	have large rounded lenses.
B)	are not secured with a strap.
C)	offer little or no side protection.
D)	do not have shatterproof lenses.


7.	What type of stress reaction occurs when an EMT is exposed to many insignificant stressors over a period of several months or years?
A)	acute stress reaction
B)	cumulative stress reaction
C)	posttraumatic stress reaction
D)	critical incident stress reaction


8.	Critical incident stress management (CISM) can occur at an ongoing scene in all of the following circumstances, EXCEPT:
A)	when personnel are assessed during periods of rest.
B)	before personnel are preparing to reenter the scene.
C)	when patients are actively being assessed or treated.
D)	before leaving the scene after the incident is resolved.


9.	The final stage of death and dying is MOST commonly displayed as:
A)	anger.
B)	denial.
C)	depression.
D)	acceptance.


10.	Which of the following general statements regarding consent is MOST correct?
A)	A patient can consent to transport but can legally refuse to be treated.
B)	Patients who are intoxicated are generally allowed to refuse treatment.
C)	Expressed consent is valid only if given in writing by a family member.
D)	All patients older than 18 years can legally refuse treatment or transport.


11.	What type of consent is involved when a 39-year-old mentally competent female with a severe headache asks you to take her to the hospital?
A)	formal
B)	implied
C)	informed
D)	expressed


12.	Which of the following scenarios MOST accurately depicts informed consent?
A)	A patient advises an EMT of why he or she is refusing care.
B)	An EMT advises a patient of the risks of receiving treatment.
C)	An EMT initiates immediate care for an unconscious adult.
D)	A patient is advised by an EMT of the risks of refusing care.


13.	Which of the following types of consent allows treatment of a patient who is unconscious or mentally incapacitated?
A)	actual
B)	implied
C)	informed
D)	expressed


14.	You are dispatched to an office building for a 49-year-old male with chest pain. When you arrive at the scene, you find the patient to be conscious and alert, but in obvious pain. He tells you that he did not call 9-1-1; a coworker did. He further states that he does not want to be treated or transported to the hospital. You should:
A)	ensure that he is aware of the risks of refusing medical care.
B)	err in the best interest of the patient and transport him at once.
C)	have him sign a refusal of care form and then return to service.
D)	tell him that he is having a heart attack and needs medical care.


15.	Which of the following MOST accurately defines negligence?
A)	transport of a mentally incompetent patient against his or her will
B)	deviation from the standard of care that may result in further injury
C)	transferring patient care to a provider with a lower level of training
D)	providing care that is consistent with care provided by other EMTs


16.	When caring for a 65-year-old male with respiratory distress, you place him in a comfortable position but do not apply oxygen. The patient's condition continues to deteriorate and he develops cardiac arrest and dies at the hospital. This scenario is an example of:
A)	assault.
B)	battery.
C)	negligence.
D)	abandonment.


17.	Acting in such a way as to make another person fear immediate bodily harm is called:
A)	libel.
B)	assault.
C)	battery.
D)	negligence.


18.	The patient care report (PCR) ensures:
A)	research data.
B)	legal protection.
C)	quality assurance.
D)	continuity of care.


19.	After delivering your patient to the hospital, you sit down to complete the PCR. When documenting the patient's last blood pressure reading, you inadvertently write 120/60 instead of 130/70. To correct this mistake, you should:
A)	draw a single horizontal line through the error, initial it, and write the correct data next to it.
B)	attempt to erase the error, initial it, and then write the correct data on a separate addendum.
C)	cover the error with correction fluid and simply write the patient's actual blood pressure over it.
D)	leave the error on your PCR but inform the staff of the patient's actual blood pressure.


20.	Which of the following statements regarding a patient refusal is MOST correct?
A)	A patient who consumed a few beers will likely be able to refuse EMS treatment.
B)	Advice given to a patient who refuses EMS treatment should not be documented.
C)	A mentally competent adult has the legal right to refuse EMS care and transport.
D)	Documentation of proposed care is unnecessary if the patient refuses treatment.


21.	When relaying patient information via radio, communications should be:
A)	brief and easily understood.
B)	coded and scripted.
C)	spoken in a loud voice.
D)	lengthy and complete.


22.	Movement or motion away from the body's midline is called:
A)	flexion.
B)	extension.
C)	adduction.
D)	abduction.


23.	A patient has fractured both femurs. Anatomically, these injuries would be described as being:
A)	medial.
B)	proximal.
C)	bilateral.
D)	unilateral.


24.	What three bones make up the shoulder girdle?
A)	clavicle, scapula, humerus
B)	acromion, clavicle, scapula
C)	acromion, scapula, humerus
D)	acromion, humerus, clavicle


25.	The ____________ is a muscular dome that forms the inferior boundary of the thorax, separating the thorax from the abdomen.
A)	costal arch
B)	diaphragm
C)	mediastinum
D)	costovertebral angle


26.	The bones of the forearm are called the:
A)	radius and ulna.
B)	tibia and radius.
C)	humerus and ulna.
D)	radius and humerus.


27.	The supporting bone of the arm is the:
A)	ulna.
B)	humerus.
C)	radius.
D)	clavicle.


28.	Each pelvic bone is formed by the fusion of the:
A)	sacrum and ischium.
B)	ilium, ischium, and pubis.
C)	pubis and acetabulum.
D)	ilium, pubis, and sacrum.


29.	The bony prominence on the lateral/superior aspect of the thigh is called the:
A)	iliac crest.
B)	sacroiliac joint.
C)	sacral symphysis.
D)	greater trochanter.


30.	The bones that comprise the fingers and toes are called:
A)	carpals.
B)	metacarpals.
C)	phalanges.
D)	metatarsals


31.	The elbow is an example of a ____________ joint.
A)	hinge
B)	saddle
C)	gliding
D)	ball-and-socket


32.	Which of the following statements regarding smooth muscle is correct?
A)	A person has no voluntary control over smooth muscle.
B)	Smooth muscle is found exclusively within blood vessels.
C)	The biceps and quadriceps are examples of smooth muscle.
D)	Smooth muscle is under control of the voluntary nervous system.


33.	Which of the following structures does NOT contain smooth muscle?
A)	blood vessels
B)	urinary system
C)	skeletal system
D)	gastrointestinal tract


34.	Skeletal muscle is also called:
A)	smooth muscle.
B)	autonomic muscle.
C)	voluntary muscle.
D)	involuntary muscle.


35.	Which of the following is a function of the upper airway?
A)	relaxes bronchiole smooth muscle
B)	exchanges oxygen and carbon dioxide
C)	creates sound from vocal cord vibration
D)	warms and humidifies inhaled air


36.	The vocal cords are located in the:
A)	larynx.
B)	pharynx.
C)	oropharynx.
D)	nasopharynx


37.	The leaf-shaped flap of tissue that prevents food and liquid from entering the trachea during swallowing is called the:
A)	uvula.
B)	epiglottis.
C)	vallecula.
D)	pharynx.


38.	Together, the right and left lungs contain how many lobes?
A)	three
B)	four
C)	five
D)	six


39.	As the bronchus divides into smaller bronchioles, the terminal ends of these smaller passages form the:
A)	pleura.
B)	alveoli.
C)	bronchi.
D)	capillaries.


40.	The diaphragm is a unique muscle because it:
A)	is the exclusive muscle of breathing.
B)	does not receive impulses from the brain.
C)	is both a voluntary and involuntary muscle.
D)	does not have striations like skeletal muscle.


41.	The diaphragm and intercostal muscles contract during:
A)	inhalation.
B)	exhalation.
C)	respiration.
D)	ventilation.


42.	Oxygen and carbon dioxide pass across the alveolar membrane in the lungs through a process called:
A)	osmosis.
B)	breathing.
C)	diffusion.
D)	ventilation.


43.	An infant or small child's airway can be occluded if it is overextended or overflexed because:
A)	the back of the head is flat, which prevents a neutral position.
B)	he or she has a long neck, which makes the trachea prone to collapse.
C)	the occiput is proportionately large and the trachea is flexible.
D)	the tongue is proportionately small and can fall back into the throat.


44.	The anterior fontanelle fuses together between the ages of:
A)	3 and 4 months.
B)	6 and 8 months.
C)	7 and 14 months.
D)	9 and 18 months.


45.	The pulse rate of a child from ages 6 to 12 years is approximately:
A)	60 to 100 beats/min.
B)	70 to 120 beats/min.
C)	90 to 140 beats/min.
D)	100 to 150 beats/min.


46.	A 16-year-old female complains of vaginal bleeding and abdominal cramping that began several hours ago. During your assessment interview, you should:
A)	obtain the majority of your information from one of her parents.
B)	inquire about the possibility of pregnancy in private, if possible.
C)	avoid asking questions that she will feel uncomfortable answering.
D)	recall that patients in this age group prefer not to be treated as adults.


47.	The proper technique for using the power grip is to:
A)	lift with your palms up.
B)	rotate your palms down.
C)	hold the handle with your fingers.
D)	position your hands about 6 apart.


48.	General guidelines for carrying a patient on a stretcher include:
A)	maintaining slight flexion of your back.
B)	leaning back from your waist when lifting.
C)	slightly twisting your body when carrying.
D)	constant communication with your partners.


49. To minimize the risk of injuring yourself when lifting or moving a patient, you should:
A) flex at the waist instead of the hips.
B) avoid the use of log rolls or body drags.
C) use a direct carry whenever possible.
D) keep the weight as close to your body as possible.


50.	Which of the following MOST accurately describes the correct position of the EMTs who are executing the diamond carry technique?
A)	two at the head, two at the feet, and a fifth EMT balancing the torso
B)	one at the head, two at the feet, and a fourth EMT balancing the torso
C)	one at the head, one at the feet, and one on each side of the patient's torso
D)	two at the head, one at the feet, and one on the left side of the patient's torso



Answer Key

1.	B
2.	B
3.	B
4.	C
5.	A
6.	C
7.	B
8.	C
9.	D
10.	A
11.	D
12.	B
13.	B
14.	A
15.	B
16.	C
17.	B
18.	D
19.	A
20.	C
21.	A
22.	D
23.	C
24.	A
25.	B
26.	A
27.	B
28.	B
29.	D
30.	C
31.	A
32.	A
33.	C
34.	C
35.	D
36.	A
37.	B
38.	C
39.	B
40.	C
41.	A
42.	C
43.	C
44.	D
45.	B
46.	B
47.	A
48.	D
49.	D
50.	C

